# 1.Introduction to cv_lite

# Introduction to cv_lite

Introduction to cv_liteWhat is the CV_Lite Library?Why use the CV_Lite library?Additional Notes

## What is the CV_Lite Library?

The `cv_lite` module is a lightweight image processing module based on `OpenCV` for specific tasks. It provides accelerated methods for some common tasks, complementing the methods in the `image` module of `OpenCV`. It is important to note that it is not an `OpenCV` library and only provides accelerated versions of some tasks.

## Why use the CV_Lite library?

The K230 uses the OpenCV-based image processing library by default. Using the OpenCV image processing library does not fully utilize the powerful processing performance of the K230 chip. Using the `cv_lite` library, on the other hand, allows for higher frame rates and better detection results. Below is a frame rate comparison of some common functions.

Note: Data sourced from Canaan Technology's official documentation.

For inputs with the same resolution, we compared the processing efficiency of OpenMV processing an RGB565 image and cv_lite processing an RGB888 image. The resulting frame rate comparison results are shown in the table below. The following frame rates are only compared when processing a fixed scene. The actual frame rate may be affected by scene complexity, such as the number of circles. Please refer to the specific scene for accuracy.

|  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |

In addition to the above optimizations, cv_lite also adds interfaces for performing morphological operations, white balance, exposure adjustment, and histogram statistics on RGB888 images using software processing:

|  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |

## Additional Notes

Here are explanations of common formats in the `cv_lite` module:

- Input data format: `ulab.numpy.ndarray` type, typically obtained using `image.to_numpy_ref()`.
- Converting `ulab.numpy.ndarray` back to the `image` instance type is typically accomplished using `img = image.Image(image_width, image_height, image.GRAYSCALE, alloc=image.ALLOC_REF, data=np_data)`. Note that the image type and data size meet the requirements.
- The previous two steps do not reallocate memory; the same memory block is used, which is not very time-consuming.
- RGB888 format data can be used with OpenMV's `image` module to convert it using `to_rgb565()`.

For a complete API reference, please refer to Section 2 of this chapter, 2.cv_lite API Reference Manual.